# Educational Haptic Device: Rotation Demonstration Model (MAE207 Winter2023)

To facilitate the understanding and experience of celestial rotation for students and children in schools or science museums, a display model of celestial rotation and a customized control system containing specialized haptic devices were created. This system allows the user to configure the exact parameters of the celestial body and switch between various star fields, including the solar system, Jupiter and its moons, or the Earth and its satellites. Numerous studies and findings have repeatedly shown that human spatial ability, which refers to the ability to process and imagine information about objects and their spatial relationships, is an important and integral component of the human cognitive and learning process [?]. This ability allows individuals to navigate through physical space, mentally manipulate objects and images, solve problems, and understand and interpret spatial information in s immersive situation, including the learning of science, engineering, and mathematical knowledge. By flexibly applying this critical skill, humans will more effectively understand the physical world and thus acquire new knowledge and skills. As a demonstration, we will build a template of four planets located close to the Sun in our solar system.

The solar system demonstration aims to calculate and demonstrate the motion and interaction between the planets and the Sun by inputting data from the Sun and different planets. The main principle of this demonstration is to use a vertical rotating rod as a frame, which includes an arm attached to its upper part. By manipulating the tip of the arm close to or away from the center of the rod, the position of the planets can be simulated according to their orbit around the Sun.
